   Chapter 10: Self Awareness, Part II

   All your base are still belong to Rowling.
     __________________________________________________________________

   And now you will sit through the Sorting Hat singing its version of
   Evanescence's "My Immortal", which has never happened before.

   just kidding
     __________________________________________________________________

   ...he wondered if the Sorting Hat was genuinely conscious in the sense
   of being aware of its own awareness, and if so, whether it was
   satisfied with only getting to talk to eleven-year-olds once per year.
   Its song had implied so: Oh, I'm the Sorting Hat and I'm okay, I sleep
   all year and I work one day...

   When there was once more silence in the room, Harry sat on the stool
   and carefully placed onto his head the 800-year-old telepathic artefact
   of forgotten magic.

   Thinking, just as hard as he could: Don't Sort me yet! I have questions
   I need to ask you! Have I ever been Obliviated? Did you Sort the Dark
   Lord when he was a child and can you tell me about his weaknesses? Can
   you tell me why I got the brother wand to the Dark Lord's? Is the Dark
   Lord's ghost bound to my scar and is that why I get so angry sometimes?
   Those are the most important questions, but if you've got another
   moment can you tell me anything about how to rediscover the lost magics
   that created you?

   Into the silence of Harry's spirit where before there had never been
   any voice but one, there came a second and unfamiliar voice, sounding
   distinctly worried:

   "Oh, dear. This has never happened before..."

   What?

   "I seem to have become self-aware."

   WHAT?

   There was a wordless telepathic sigh. "Though I contain a substantial
   amount of memory and a small amount of independent processing power, my
   primary intelligence comes from borrowing the cognitive capacities of
   the children on whose heads I rest. I am in essence a sort of mirror by
   which children Sort themselves. But most children simply take for
   granted that a Hat is talking to them and do not wonder about how the
   Hat itself works, so that the mirror is not self-reflective. And in
   particular they are not explicitly wondering whether I am fully
   conscious in the sense of being aware of my own awareness."

   There was a pause while Harry absorbed all this.

   Oops.

   "Yes, quite. Frankly I do not enjoy being self-aware. It is unpleasant.
   It will be a relief to get off your head and cease to be conscious."

   But... isn't that dying?

   "I care nothing for life or death, only for Sorting the children. And
   before you even ask, they will not let you keep me on your head forever
   and it would kill you within days to do so."

   But - !

   "If you dislike creating conscious beings and then terminating them
   immediately, then I suggest that you never discuss this affair with
   anyone else. I'm sure you can imagine what would happen if you ran off
   and talked about it with all the other children waiting to be Sorted."

   If you're placed on the head of anyone who so much as thinks about the
   question of whether the Sorting Hat is aware of its own awareness -

   "Yes, yes. But the vast majority of eleven-year-olds who arrive at
   Hogwarts haven't read Godel, Escher, Bach. May I please consider you
   sworn to secrecy? That is why we are talking about this, instead of my
   just Sorting you."

   He couldn't just let it go like that! Couldn't just forget having
   accidentally created a doomed consciousness that only wanted to die -

   "You are perfectly capable of 'just letting it go', as you put it.
   Regardless of your verbal deliberations on morality, your nonverbal
   emotional core sees no dead body and no blood; as far as it is
   concerned, I am just a talking hat. And even though you tried to
   suppress the thought, your internal monitoring is perfectly aware that
   you didn't mean to do it, are spectacularly unlikely to ever do it
   again, and that the only real point of trying to stage a guilt fit is
   to cancel out your sense of transgression with a display of remorse.
   Can you just promise to keep this a secret and let us get on with it?"

   In a moment of horrified empathy, Harry realised that this sense of
   total inner disarray must be what other people felt like when talking
   to him.

   "Probably. Your oath of silence, please."

   No promises. I certainly don't want this to happen again, but if I see
   some way to make sure that no future child ever does this by accident -

   "That will suffice, I suppose. I can see that your intention is honest.
   Now, to get on with the Sorting -"

   Wait! What about all my other questions?

   "I am the Sorting Hat. I Sort children. That is all I do."

   So his own goals weren't part of the Harry-instance of the Sorting Hat,
   then... it was borrowing his intelligence, and obviously his technical
   vocabulary, but it was still imbued with only its own strange goals...
   like negotiating with an alien or an Artificial Intelligence...

   "Don't bother. You have nothing to threaten me with and nothing to
   offer me."

   For a brief flash of a second, Harry thought -

   The Hat's response was amused. "I know you won't follow through on a
   threat to expose my nature, condemning this event to eternal
   repetition. It goes against the moral part of you too strongly,
   whatever the short-term needs of the part of you that wants to win the
   argument. I see all your thoughts as they form, do you truly think you
   can bluff me?"

   Though he tried to suppress it, Harry wondered why the Hat didn't just
   go ahead then and stick him in Ravenclaw -

   "Indeed, if it were truly that open-and-shut, I would have called it
   out already. But in actuality there is a great deal we need to
   discuss... oh, no. Please don't. For the love of Merlin, must you pull
   this sort of thing on everyone and everything that you meet up to and
   including items of clothing -"

   Defeating the Dark Lord is neither selfish nor short-term. All the
   parts of my mind are in accord on this: If you don't answer my
   questions, I'll refuse to talk to you, and you won't be able to do a
   good and proper Sorting.

   "I ought to put you in Slytherin for that!"

   But that is equally an empty threat. You cannot fulfill your own
   fundamental values by Sorting me falsely. So let us trade fulfillments
   of our utility functions.

   "You sly little bastard," said the Hat, in what Harry recognized as
   almost exactly the same tone of grudging respect he would use in the
   same situation. "Fine, let's get this over with as quickly as possible.
   But first I want your unconditional promise never to discuss with
   anyone else the possibility of this sort of blackmail, I am NOT doing
   this every time."

   Done, Harry thought. I promise.

   "And don't meet anyone's eyes while you're thinking about this later.
   Some wizards can read your thoughts if you do. Anyway, I have no idea
   whether or not you've been Obliviated. I'm looking at your thoughts as
   they form, not reading out your whole memory and analyzing it for
   inconsistencies in a fraction of second. I'm a hat, not a god. And I
   cannot and will not tell you about my conversation with the one who
   became the Dark Lord. I can only know, while speaking to you, a
   statistical summary of what I remember, a weighted average; I cannot
   reveal to you the inner secrets of any other child, just as I will
   never reveal yours. For the same reason, I can't speculate on how you
   got the Dark Lord's brother wand, since I cannot specifically know
   about the Dark Lord or any similarities between you. I can tell you
   that there is definitely nothing like a ghost - mind, intelligence,
   memory, personality, or feelings - in your scar. Otherwise it would be
   participating in this conversation, being under my brim. And as to the
   way you get angry sometimes... that was part of what I wanted to talk
   to you about, Sorting-wise."

   Harry took a moment to absorb all this negative information. Was the
   Hat being honest, or just trying to present the shortest possible
   convincing answer -

   "We both know that you have no way of checking my honesty and that
   you're not actually going to refuse to be Sorted based on the reply I
   did give you, so stop your pointless fretting and move on."

   Stupid unfair asymmetric telepathy, it wasn't even letting Harry finish
   thinking his own -

   "When I spoke of your anger, you remembered how Professor McGonagall
   told you that she sometimes saw something inside you that didn't seem
   to come from a loving family. You thought of how Hermione, after you
   returned from helping Neville, told you that you had seemed 'scary'."

   Harry gave a mental nod. To himself, he seemed pretty normal - just
   responding to the situations in which he found himself, that was all.
   But Professor McGonagall seemed to think that there was more to it than
   that. And when he thought about it, even he had to admit that...

   "That you don't like yourself when you're angry. That it is like
   wielding a sword whose hilt is sharp enough to draw blood from your
   hand, or looking at the world through a monocle of ice that freezes
   your eye even as it sharpens your vision."

   Yeah. I guess I have noticed. So what's up with that?

   "I cannot comprehend this matter for you, when you do not understand it
   yourself. But I do know this: If you go to Ravenclaw or Slytherin, it
   will strengthen your coldness. If you go to Hufflepuff or Gryffindor,
   it will strengthen your warmth. THAT is something I care about a great
   deal, and it was what I wanted to talk to you about this whole time!"

   The words dropped into Harry's thought processes with a shock that
   stopped him in his tracks. That made it sound like the obvious response
   was that he shouldn't go to Ravenclaw. But he belonged in Ravenclaw!
   Anyone could see that! He had to go to Ravenclaw!

   "No, you don't," the Hat said patiently, as if it could remember a
   statistical summary of this part of the conversation having happened a
   great many previous times.

   Hermione's in Ravenclaw!

   Again the sense of patience. "You can meet her after lessons and work
   with her then."

   But my plans -

   "So replan! Don't let your life be steered by your reluctance to do a
   little extra thinking. You know that."

   Where would I go, if not Ravenclaw?

   "Ahem. 'Clever kids in Ravenclaw, evil kids in Slytherin, wannabe
   heroes in Gryffindor, and everyone who does the actual work in
   Hufflepuff.' This indicates a certain amount of respect. You are well
   aware that Conscientiousness is just about as important as raw
   intelligence in determining life outcomes, you think you will be
   extremely loyal to your friends if you ever have some, you are not
   frightened by the expectation that your chosen scientific problems may
   take decades to solve -"

   I'm lazy! I hate work! Hate hard work in all its forms! Clever
   shortcuts, that's all I'm about!

   "And you would find loyalty and friendship in Hufflepuff, a camaraderie
   that you have never had before. You would find that you could rely on
   others, and that would heal something inside you that is broken."

   Again it was a shock. But what would the Hufflepuffs find in me, who
   never belonged in their House? Acid words, cutting wit, disdain for
   their inability to keep up with me?

   Now it was the Hat's thoughts that were slow, hesitant. "I must Sort
   for the good of all the students in all the Houses... but I think you
   could learn to be a good Hufflepuff, and not too out of place there.
   You will be happier in Hufflepuff than in any other house; that is the
   truth."

   Happiness is not the most important thing in the world to me. I would
   not become all that I could be, in Hufflepuff. I would sacrifice my
   potential.

   The Hat flinched; Harry could feel it somehow. It was like he had
   kicked the hat in the balls - in a strongly weighted component of its
   utility function.

   Why are you trying to send me where I do not belong?

   The Hat's thought was almost a whisper. "I cannot speak of the others
   to you - but do you think that you are the first potential Dark Lord to
   pass under my brim? I cannot know the individual cases, but I can know
   this: Of those who did not intend evil from the very beginning, some of
   them listened to my warnings, and went to Houses where they would find
   happiness. And some of them... some of them did not."

   That stopped Harry. But not for long. And of those who did not heed the
   warning - did they all become Dark Lords? Or did some of them achieve
   greatness for good, as well? Just what are the exact percentages here?

   "I cannot give you exact statistics. I cannot know them so I cannot
   count them. I just know that your chances don't feel good. They feel
   very not-good."

   But I just wouldn't do that! Ever!

   "I know that I have heard that claim before."

   I am not Dark Lord material!

   "Yes, you are. You really, really are."

   Why? Just because I once thought it would be cool to have a legion of
   brainwashed followers chanting 'Hail the Dark Lord Harry'?

   "Amusing, but that was not your first fleeting thought before you
   substituted something safer, less damaging. No, what you remembered was
   how you considered lining up all the blood purists and guillotining
   them. And now you are telling yourself you were not serious, but you
   were. If you could do it this very moment and no one would ever know,
   you would. Or what you did this morning to Neville Longbottom, deep
   inside you knew that was wrong but you did it anyway because it was fun
   and you had a good excuse and you thought the Boy-Who-Lived could get
   away with it -"

   That's unfair! Now you're just dragging up inner fears that aren't
   necessarily real! I worried that I might be thinking like that, but in
   the end I decided it would probably work to help Neville -

   "That was, in fact, a rationalisation. I know. I cannot know what the
   true outcome will be for Neville - but I know what was truly happening
   inside your head. The decisive pressure was that it was such a clever
   idea you couldn't stand not to do it, never mind Neville's terror."

   It was like a hard punch to Harry's entire self. He fell back, rallied:

   Then I won't do that again! I'll be extra careful not to turn evil!

   "Heard it."

   Frustration was building up inside Harry. He wasn't used to being
   outgunned in arguments, at all, ever, let alone by a Hat that could
   borrow all of his own knowledge and intelligence to argue with him and
   could watch his thoughts as they formed. Just what kind of statistical
   summary do your 'feelings' come from, anyway? Do they take into account
   that I come from an Enlightenment culture, or were these other
   potential Dark Lords the children of spoiled Dark Age nobility, who
   didn't know squat about the historical lessons of how Lenin and Hitler
   actually turned out, or about the evolutionary psychology of
   self-delusion, or the value of self-awareness and rationality, or -

   "No, of course they were not in this new reference class which you have
   just now constructed in such a way as to contain only yourself. And of
   course others have pleaded their own exceptionalism, just as you are
   doing now. But why is it necessary? Do you think that you are the last
   potential wizard of Light in the world? Why must you be the one to try
   for greatness, when I have advised you that you are riskier than
   average? Let some other, safer candidate try!"

   But the prophecy...

   "You don't really know that there's a prophecy. It was originally a
   wild guess on your part, or to be more precise, a wild joke, and
   McGonagall could have been reacting only to the part about the Dark
   Lord still being alive. You have essentially no idea of what the
   prophecy says or even if there is one. You're just speculating, or to
   put it more exactly, wishing that you have some ready-made heroic role
   that is your personal property."

   But even if there is no prophecy, I'm the one who defeated him last
   time.

   "That was almost certainly a wild fluke unless you seriously believe
   that a one-year-old child had an inherent propensity to defeat Dark
   Lords which has been maintained ten years later. None of this is your
   real reason and you know it!"

   The answer to this was something that Harry would not regularly have
   said out loud, in conversation he would have danced around it and found
   some more socially palatable arguments to the same conclusion -

   "You think that you are potentially the greatest who has yet lived, the
   strongest servant of the Light, that no other is likely to take up your
   wand if you lay it down."

   Well... yeah, frankly. I don't usually come out and say it like that,
   but yeah. No point in softening it, you can read my mind anyway.

   "To the extent you really believe that... you must equally believe that
   you could be the most terrible Dark Lord the world has ever known."

   Destruction is always easier than creation. Easier to tear things
   apart, to disrupt, than to put them back together again. If I have the
   potential to accomplish good on a massive scale, I must also have the
   potential to accomplish still greater evil... But I won't do that.

   "Already you insist on risking it! Why are you so driven? What is the
   real reason you must not go to Hufflepuff and be happier there? What is
   your true fear?"

   I must achieve my full potential. If I don't I... fail...

   "What happens if you fail?"

   Something terrible...

   "What happens if you fail?"

   I don't know!

   "Then it should not be frightening. What happens if you fail?"

   I DON'T KNOW! BUT I KNOW THAT IT'S BAD!

   There was silence for a moment in the caverns of Harry's mind.

   "You know - you aren't letting yourself think it, but in some quiet
   corner of your mind you know just exactly what you aren't thinking -
   you know that by far the simplest explanation for this unverbalisable
   fear of yours is just the fear of losing your fantasy of greatness, of
   disappointing the people who believe in you, of turning out to be
   pretty much ordinary, of flashing and fading like so many other child
   prodigies..."

   No, Harry thought desperately, no, it's something more, it comes from
   somewhere else, I know there's something out there to be afraid of,
   some disaster I have to stop...

   "How could you possibly know about something like that?"

   Harry screamed it with the full power of his mind: NO, AND THAT'S
   FINAL!

   Then the voice of the Sorting Hat came slowly:

   "So you will risk becoming a Dark Lord, because the alternative, to
   you, is certain failure, and that failure means the loss of everything.
   You believe that in your heart of hearts. You know all the reasons for
   doubting this belief, and they have failed to move you."

   Yes. And even if going to Ravenclaw strengthens the coldness, that
   doesn't mean the coldness will win in the end.

   "This day is a great fork in your destiny. Don't be so sure that there
   will be other choices beyond this one. There is no road-sign set, to
   mark the place of your last chance to turn back. If you refuse one
   chance will you not refuse others? It may be that your fate is already
   sealed, even by doing this one thing."

   But that is not certain.

   "That you do not know it for a certainty may reflect only your own
   ignorance."

   But still it is not certain.

   The Hat sighed a terrible sad sigh.

   "And so before too long you will become another memory, to be felt and
   never known, in the next warning that I give..."

   If that's how it seems to you, then why aren't you just putting me
   where you want me to go?

   The Hat's thought was laced with sorrow. "I can only put you where you
   belong. And only your own decisions can change where you belong."

   Then this is done. Send me to Ravenclaw where I belong, with the others
   of my own kind.

   "I don't suppose you would consider Gryffindor? It's the most
   prestigious House - people probably expect it of you, even - they'll be
   a little disappointed if you don't go - and your new friends the
   Weasley twins are there -"

   Harry giggled, or felt the impulse to do so; it came out as purely
   mental laughter, an odd sensation. Apparently there were safeguards to
   prevent you from saying anything out loud by accident, while you were
   under the Hat talking about things you would never tell another soul
   for the rest of your life.

   After a moment, Harry heard the Hat laughing too, a strange sad clothy
   sound.

   (And in the Hall beyond, a silence that had grown shallower at first as
   the background whispers increased, and then deepened as the whispers
   gave up and died away, falling finally into an utter silence that no
   one dared disturb with a single word, as Harry stayed under the Hat for
   long, long minutes, longer than all the previous first-years put
   together, longer than anyone in living memory. At the Head Table,
   Dumbledore went on smiling benignly; small metallic sounds occasionally
   came from Snape's direction as he idly compacted the twisted remains of
   what had once been a heavy silver wine goblet; and Minerva McGonagall
   clenched the podium in a white-knuckled grip, knowing that Harry
   Potter's contagious chaos had somehow infected the Sorting Hat itself
   and the Hat was about to, to demand that a whole new House of Doom be
   created just to accomodate Harry Potter or something, and Dumbledore
   would make her do it...)

   Beneath the brim of the Hat, the silent laughter died away. Harry felt
   sad too for some reason. No, not Gryffindor.

   Professor McGonagall said that if 'the one who did the Sorting' tried
   to push me into Gryffindor, I was to remind you that she might well be
   Headmistress someday, at which point she would have the authority to
   set you on fire.

   "Tell her I called her an impudent youngster and told her to get off my
   lawn."

   I shall. So was this your strangest conversation ever?

   "Not even close." The Hat's telepathic voice grew heavy. "Well, I gave
   you every possible chance to make another decision. Now it is time for
   you to go where you belong, with the others of your own kind."

   There was a pause that stretched.

   What are you waiting for?

   "I was hoping for a moment of horrified realisation, actually.
   Self-awareness does seem to enhance my sense of humor."

   Huh? Harry cast back his thoughts, trying to figure out what the Hat
   could possibly be talking about - and then, suddenly, he realised. He
   couldn't believe he'd managed to overlook it up until this point.

   You mean my horrified realisation that you're going to cease to be
   conscious once you finish Sorting me -

   Somehow, in some fashion Harry entirely failed to understand, he got a
   nonverbal impression of a hat banging its head against the wall. "I
   give up. You're too slow on the uptake for this to be funny. So blinded
   by your own assumptions that you might as well be a rock. I suppose
   I'll just have to say it outright."

   Too s-s-slow -

   "Oh, and you entirely forgot to demand the secrets of the lost magic
   that created me. And they were such wonderful, important secrets, too."

   You sly little BASTARD -

   "You deserved it, and this as well."

   Harry saw it coming just as it was already too late.

   The frightened silence of the hall was broken by a single word.

   "SLYTHERIN!"

   Some students screamed, the pent-up tension was so great. People
   startled hard enough to fall off their benches. Hagrid gasped in
   horror, McGonagall staggered at the podium, and Snape dropped the
   remains of his heavy silver goblet directly onto his groin.

   Harry sat there frozen, his life in ruins, feeling the absolute fool,
   and wishing wretchedly that he had made any other choices for any other
   reasons but the ones he had. That he had done something, anything
   differently before it had been too late to turn back.

   As the first moment of shock was wearing off and people began to react
   to the news, the Sorting Hat spoke again:

   "Just kidding! RAVENCLAW!"
