   Chapter 100: Precautionary Measures, Pt 1

   May 13th, 1992.

   Argus Filch's face appeared twisted in the light of the oil lamp he
   held, shadows dancing over his face. Behind them the doors of Hogwarts
   quickly receded, and the dark grounds moved closer. The track they now
   walked was muddy and indistinct.

   The trees, branches formerly bare with winter, were not yet fully clad
   with spring; their branches stretched up toward the sky like lean
   fingers, skeletons visible amid the thin foliage. The moon was bright,
   but clouds scudding across it often threw them into darkness, lit only
   by the dim flames of Filch's lamp.

   Draco kept a firm grip on his wand.

   "Where are you taking us?" said Tracey Davis. She'd been caught along
   with Draco by Filch, on their way to an attempted meeting of the
   Silvery Slytherins after curfew hours, and likewise given a detention.

   "You just follow me," said Argus Filch.

   Draco was feeling rather annoyed with the whole affair. The Silvery
   Slytherins ought to be recognized school business. There was no reason
   why a secret conspiracy shouldn't have permission to meet after curfew,
   if it was for the greater good of Hogwarts. If this happened one more
   time he'd talk to Daphne Greengrass and Daphne would talk to her father
   and then Filch would learn the wisdom of looking the other way where
   Malfoys were concerned.

   The lights of the Hogwarts castle had diminished in the distance when
   Filch spoke again. "I bet you'll think twice about breaking a school
   rule again, won't you, eh?" Filch turned his head, away from the lamp,
   so that he could leer at the four students following him. "Oh yes...
   hard work and pain are the best teachers if you ask me... It's just a
   pity they let the old punishments die out... hang you by your wrists
   from the ceiling for a few days, I've got the chains still in my
   office, keep 'em well oiled in case they're ever needed..."

   "Hey!" Tracey said, a touch of indignation entering her voice. "I'm too
   young to hear about that - that sort of - you know! Especially if the
   chains are well-oiled!"

   Draco wasn't paying attention. Filch simply wasn't in Amycus Carrow's
   league.

   Behind them, one of the two older Slytherins following them snickered,
   though she didn't say anything. Beside her was the other, a tall boy
   with an Slavic cast to his face, and who still spoke with an accent.
   They'd been caught for some unrelated offense, having to do with the
   type of thing Tracey went on about, and looked to be in their third or
   fourth year. "Pfeh," said the taller boy. "In Durmstrang they hang you
   upside-down by your toes. By one toe, if you are insolent. Hogwarts was
   soft even in the old days."

   Argus Filch was silent for around half a minute, as though trying to
   think of a proper rejoinder, and then gave a chuckle. "We'll see what
   you say about that... when you learn what you'll be doing tonight! Ha!"

   "I said, I'm too young for that sort of thing!" said Tracey Davis. "It
   has to wait until I'm older!"

   Ahead of them was a cottage with lighted windows, though the
   proportions seemed wrong.

   Filch whistled, a high sharp sound, and a dog began barking.

   From the cottage stepped forth a figure, making the trees seem too
   short around it. The figure was followed by a dog that seemed like a
   puppy by comparison, until you looked at it apart from the taller
   silhouette and realized the dog was huge, more like a wolf.

   Draco's eyes narrowed, before he caught himself. As a Silvery Slytherin
   he wasn't supposed to be Prejudiced against any sentient being,
   especially not where other people might see him.

   "What's this?" said the figure, in the loud gruff voice of the
   half-giant. His umbrella lit up with a white glow, brighter than
   Filch's dim lamp. In his other hand he held a crossbow; a quiver of
   short bolts was strapped to his upper arm.

   "Students serving detention," Filch said, loudly. "They're to help you
   search the Forest for... whatever's been eating 'em."

   "The Forest?" gasped Tracey. "We can't go in there at night!"

   "That's right," said Filch, turning from Hagrid to glare at them. "It's
   into the Forest you're going, and I'm much mistaken if you'll all come
   out in one piece."

   "But -" said Tracey. "There's werewolves, I've heard, and vampires, and
   everyone knows what happens when there's a girl and a werewolf and a
   vampire all at the same time!"

   The huge half-giant was frowning. "Argus, I 'ad in mind you an' maybe a
   few seventh-years. 'Ere's not much point in bringing along help if I'm
   to watch over 'em the whole time."

   Argus's face lit with cruel satisfaction. "That's their lookout, isn't
   it? Should've thought of them werewolves before they got in trouble,
   shouldn't they? Send them out alone. I shouldn't be too friendly to
   them, Hagrid. They're here to be punished, after all."

   The half-giant gave a massive sigh (it sounded like a normal man having
   all the air driven out of his lungs by a Bludgeoning Hex). "Yeh've done
   yer bit. I'll take over from here."

   "I'll be back at dawn," said Filch, "for what's left of them," he added
   nastily, and he turned and started back toward the castle, his lamp
   bobbing away in the darkness.

   "Right then," said Hagrid, "now, listen carefully, 'cause it's
   dangerous what we're gonna do tonight an' I don' want no one takin'
   risks. Follow me over here a moment."

   He led them to the very edge of the Forest. Holding his lamp up high he
   pointed down a narrow, winding earth track that disappeared into the
   thick black trees. A light breeze blew over Draco's head as he looked
   into the Forest.

   "There's summat in there that's bin eatin' unicorns," the huge man
   said.

   Draco nodded; he distantly remembered hearing something along those
   lines a couple of weeks ago, toward the end of April.

   "Did you call us to track down a trail of silvery blood to a wounded
   unicorn?" Tracey said excitedly.

   "No," said Draco, though he managed to stop the reflexive sneer. "Filch
   gave us the detention note at lunch today, at noon. Mr. Hagrid wouldn't
   wait that long to find a wounded unicorn, and if we were looking for
   something like that, we'd look in the day when it's bright. So," Draco
