   Chapter 47: Personhood Theory

   There comes a point in every plot where the victim starts to suspect;
   and looks back, and sees a trail of events all pointing in a single
   direction. And when that point comes, Father had explained, the
   prospect of the loss may seem so unbearable, and admitting themselves
   tricked may seem so humiliating, that the victim will yet deny the
   plot, and the game may continue long after.

   Father had warned Draco not to do that again.

   First, though, he'd let Mr. Avery finish eating all of the cookies he'd
   swindled from Draco, while Draco watched and cried. The whole lovely
   jar of cookies that Father had given him just a few hours earlier, for
   Draco had lost all of them to Mr. Avery, down to the very last one.

   So it was a familiar feeling that Draco had felt in the pit of his
   stomach, when Gregory told him about The Kiss.

   Sometimes you looked back, and saw things...

   (In a lightless classroom - you couldn't quite call it unused any more,
   since it'd seen weekly use over the last few months - a boy sat
   enshrouded in a hooded cowl, with an unlighted crystal globe on the
   desk in front of him. Thinking in silence, thinking in darkness,
   waiting for an opening door to let in the light.)

   Harry had shoved Granger away and said, I told you, no kissing!

   Harry would probably say something like, She just did it to annoy me,
   last time, just like she made me go on that date.

   But the verified story was that Granger had been willing to face the
   Dementor again in order to help Harry; that she had kissed Harry,
   crying, when he was lost in the depths of Dementation; and that her
   kiss had brought him back.

   That didn't sound like rivalry, even friendly rivalry.

   That sounded like the kind of friendship you usually didn't see even in
   plays.

   Then why had Harry made his friend climb the icy walls of Hogwarts?

   Because that was the sort of thing Harry Potter did to his friends?

   Father had told Draco that to fathom a strange plot, one technique was
   to look at what ended up happening, assume it was the intended result,
   and ask who benefited.

   What had ended up happening as the result of Draco and Granger fighting
   Harry Potter together... was that Draco had started to feel a lot
   friendlier toward Granger.

   Who benefited from the scion of Malfoy becoming friends with a mudblood
   witch?

   Who benefited, that was famous for exactly that sort of plot?

   Who benefited, that could possibly be pulling Harry Potter's strings?

   Dumbledore.

   And if that was true then Draco would have to go to Father and tell him
   everything, no matter what happened after that, Draco couldn't imagine
   what would happen after that, it was awful beyond imagining. Which made
   him want to cling desperately to the last shred of hope that it wasn't
   all what it looked like...

   ...Draco remembered that, too, from Mr. Avery's lesson.

   Draco hadn't planned to confront Harry yet. He was still trying to
   think of an experimental test, something that Harry wouldn't just see
   through and fake. But then Vincent had come with the message that Harry
   wanted to meet early this week, on Friday instead of Saturday.

   And so here Draco was, in a dark classroom, an unlit crystal globe on
   his desk, waiting.

   Minutes passed.

   Footsteps approached.

   The door made a gentle creak as it swung open into the classroom,
   revealing Harry Potter dressed in his own hood and cowl; Harry stepped
   forward into the dark classroom, and the sturdy door closed behind him
   with a faint click.

   Draco tapped the crystal globe, and the classroom lit with bright green
   light. Green light projected shadows of the desks onto the floor, and
   glared back at him from the curved chair-backs, photons bouncing off
   the wood in such fashion that the angle of incidence equaled the angle
   of reflection.

   At least that much of what he'd learned wasn't likely to be a lie.

   Harry had flinched as the light went on, halting for a moment, then
   resumed his approach. "Hello, Draco," Harry said quietly, drawing back
   his hood as he came to Draco's desk. "Thank you for coming, I know it's
   not our usual time -"

   "You're welcome," Draco said flatly.

   Harry dragged one of the chairs to face Draco across his desk, the legs
   making a slight screeching sound on the floor. He spun the chair so
   that it was facing the wrong way, and sat down straddling it, his arms
   folded across the back of the chair. The boy's face was pensive,
   frowning, serious, looking very adult even for Harry Potter.

   "I have an important question to ask you," said Harry, "but there's
   something else I want us to do before that."

   Draco said nothing, feeling a certain weariness. Part of him just
   wanted it all to be over with already.

   "Tell me, Draco," said Harry. "Why don't Muggles ever leave ghosts
   behind when they die?"

   "Because Muggles don't have souls, obviously," Draco said. He didn't
   even realize until after he'd said it that it might contradict Harry's
   politics, and then he didn't care. Besides, it was obvious.

   Harry's face showed no surprise. "Before I ask my important question, I
   want to see if you can learn the Patronus Charm."

   For a moment the sheer nonsequitur stumped Draco. Good old
   impossible-to-predict-or-understand Harry Potter. There were times when
   Draco wondered whether Harry was deliberately this disorienting as a
   tactic.

   Then Draco understood, and shoved himself up and away from his desk in
   a single angry motion. That was it. It was over. "Like Dumbledore's
   servants," he spat.

   "Like Salazar Slytherin," Harry said steadily.

   Draco almost stumbled over his own feet in the middle of his first
   stride toward the door.

   Slowly, Draco turned back toward Harry.

   "I don't know where you came up with that," said Draco, "but it's
   wrong, everyone knows the Patronus Charm is a Gryffindor spell -"

   "Salazar Slytherin could cast a corporeal Patronus Charm," Harry said.
   Harry's hand darted into his robes, brought out a book whose title was
   written as white on green, and so almost impossible to read in the
   green light; but it looked old. "I discovered that when I was
   researching the Patronus Charm before. And I found the original
   reference and checked the book out of the library just in case you
   didn't believe me. The author of this book doesn't think there's
   anything unusual about Salazar being able to cast a Patronus, either;
   the belief that Slytherins can't do that must be recent. And as a
   further historical note, though I don't have the book with me, Godric
   Gryffindor never could."

   After the first six times Draco had tried calling Harry's bluff, on six
   successively more ridiculous occasions, he'd realized that Harry just
   didn't lie about what was written in books. Still, when Harry's hands
   opened the book and laid it out to the place of a bookmark, Draco
   leaned over and studied the place where Harry's finger pointed.

   Then the fires of Ravenclaw fell upon the darkness that had cloaked the
   left wing of Lord Foul's army, breaking it, and it was revealed that
   the Lord Gryffindor had spoken true; the fear they all had felt was not
   natural in its source, but coming from thrice a dozen Dementors, who
   had been promised the souls of the defeated. At once the Lady
   Hufflepuff and Lord Slytherin brought forth their Patronuses, a vast
   angry badger and a bright silver serpent, and the defenders lifted
   their heads as the shadow passed from their hearts. And Lady Ravenclaw
   laughed, remarking that Lord Foul was a great fool, for now his own
   army would be subject to the fear, but not the defenders of Hogwarts.
   Yet the Lord Slytherin said, "No fool he, that much I know." And the
   Lord Gryffindor beside him studied the battlefield with a frown upon
   his face...

   Draco looked back up. "So?"

   Harry closed the book and put it into his pouch. "Chaos and Sunshine
   both have soldiers that can cast corporeal Patronus Charms. Corporeal
   Patronuses can be used to convey messages. If you can't learn the
   spell, Dragon Army will be at a severe military disadvantage -"

   Draco didn't care about that right now, and told Harry so. His voice
   was sharper than it probably should have been.

   Harry didn't blink. "Then I'm calling in the favor you owe me from that
   time I stopped a riot from breaking out, on our first day of broomstick
   lessons. I'm going to try to teach you the Patronus Charm, and for my
   favor, I want you to do your honest best to learn and cast it. I trust
   to the honor of House Malfoy that you will."

   Draco felt that certain weariness again. If Harry had asked at any
   other time, it would have been a fair return on favor owed, given that
   it wasn't actually a Gryffindor spell. But...

   "Why?" Draco said.

   "To find out whether you can do this thing that Salazar Slytherin could
   do," Harry said evenly. "This is an experimental test, and I will not
   tell you what it means until after you have done it. Will you?"

   ...It probably was a good idea to discharge that favor on something
   innocuous, all the more so if it was time to break with Harry Potter.
   "All right."

   Harry drew a wand from his robes, and laid it against the globe. "Not
   really the best color for learning the Patronus Charm," Harry said.
   "Green light the exact shade of the Killing Curse, I mean. But silver
   is a Slytherin color too, isn't it? Dulak." The light went out, and
   Harry whispered the first two phrases of the Continual Light
   enchantment, recasting that part of it, though neither of them could
   have cast the whole thing by themselves. Then Harry tapped the globe
   again, and the room lit with a silver radiance, brilliant but still
   soft and gentle. Color returned to the desks and chairs, and to Harry's
   slightly sweaty face beneath his shock of black hair.

   It took that long for Draco to realize the implication. "You saw a
   Killing Curse cast since the last time we met? When - how -"

   "Cast the Patronus Charm," Harry said, looking more serious than ever,
   "and I'll tell you."

   Draco pressed his hands to his eyes, shutting out the silver light.
   "You know, I really should remember that you're too weird for any
   normal plots!"

   Within his self-imposed darkness, he heard the sound of Harry
   snickering.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry watched closely as Draco finished his latest run-through of the
   preliminary gestures, the part of the spell that was difficult to
   learn; the final brandish and the pronunciation didn't have to be
   precise. All three of the last runs had been perfect as far as Harry
   could see. Harry had also felt an odd impulse to adjust things that Mr.
   Lupin hadn't said anything about, like the angle of Draco's elbow or
   the direction his foot was pointing; it could have been entirely his
   own imagination, and probably was, but Harry had decided to go with it
   just in case.

   "All right," Harry said quietly. There was a tension in his chest that
   made it a little hard to speak. "Now we don't have a Dementor here, but
   that's all right. We won't need one. Draco, when your father spoke to
   me at the train station, he said that you were the one thing in the
   world that was most precious to him, and he threatened to throw away
   all his other plans to take vengeance on me, if ever you came to harm."

   "He... what?" There was a catch in Draco's voice, and a strange look on
   his face. "Why are you telling me that?"

   "Why wouldn't I?" Harry didn't let his expression change, though he
   could guess what Draco was thinking; that Harry had been plotting to
   separate Draco from his father, and shouldn't be saying anything that
   would bring them closer together. "There's always been just one person
   who matters most to you, and I know exactly what warm and happy thought
   will let you cast the Patronus Charm. You told it to me at the train
   station before the first day of school. Once you fell off a broomstick
   and broke your ribs. It hurt more than anything you'd ever felt, and
   you thought you were going to die. Pretend that fear is coming from a
   Dementor, standing in front of you, wearing a tattered black cloak,
   looking like a dead thing left in water. And then cast the Patronus
   Charm, and when you brandish the wand to drive the Dementor away, think
   of how your father held your hand, so that you wouldn't be afraid; and
   then think of how much he loves you, and how much you love him, and put
   it all into your voice when you say Expecto Patronum. For the honor of
   House Malfoy, and not just because you promised me a favor. Show me you
   didn't lie to me that day in the train station when you told me Lucius
   was a good father. Show me you can do what Salazar Slytherin could do."

   And Harry stepped backward, behind Draco, out of Draco's field of
   vision, so that Draco only faced the dusty old teacher's desk and
   blackboard at the front of the unused classroom.

   Draco cast one look behind him, that strange look still on his face,
   and then turned away to face forward. Harry saw the exhalation, the
   inhalation. The wand twitched once, twice, thrice, and four times.
   Draco's fingers slid along the wand, exactly the right distances -

   Draco lowered his wand.

   "This is too -" Draco said, "I can't think this right, while you're
   watching -"

   Harry turned around and started walking toward the door. "I'll come
   back in a minute," Harry said. "Just hold to your happy thought, and
   the Patronus will stay."
     __________________________________________________________________

   From behind Draco came the sound of the door opening again.

   Draco heard Harry's footsteps entering the classroom, but Draco didn't
   turn to look.

   Harry didn't say anything either. The silence stretched.

   Finally -

   "What does this mean?" Draco said. His voice wavered a bit.

   "It means you love your father," Harry's voice said. Which was just
   what Draco had been thinking, and trying not to cry in front of Harry.
   It was too right, just too right -

   Before Draco, on the floor, was the shining form of a snake that Draco
   recognized; a Blue Krait, a snake first brought to their manor by Lord
   Abraxas Malfoy after a visit to some faraway land, and Father had kept
   a Blue Krait in the ophidiarium ever since. The thing about the Blue
   Krait was that the bite wouldn't hurt much. Father had said that, and
   told Draco that he was never allowed to pet the snake, no matter who
   was watching. The venom killed your nerves so fast that you didn't have
   time to feel pain as the poison spread. You could die of it even after
   using Healing Charms. It ate other snakes. It was as Slytherin as any
   creature could possibly be.

   That was why a Blue Krait head had been forged into the handle of
   Father's cane.

   The bright snake darted out its tongue, which was also silver; and
   seemed to smile somehow, in a warmer way than any reptile should.

   And then Draco realized -

   "But," Draco said, still staring at the beautifully radiant snake, "you
   can't cast the Patronus Charm." Now that Draco had cast it himself, he
   understood why that was important. You could be evil, like Dumbledore,
   and still cast the Patronus Charm, so long as you had something bright
   left inside you. But if Harry Potter didn't have a single thought
   inside him that shone like that -

   "The Patronus Charm is more complicated than you think, Draco," Harry
   said seriously. "Not everyone who fails at casting it is a bad person,
   or even unhappy. But anyway, I can cast it. I did it on my second try,
   after I realized what I'd done wrong facing the Dementor my first time.
   But, well, my life gets a little peculiar sometimes, and my Patronus
   came out strange, and I'm keeping it a secret for now -"

   "Am I supposed to just believe that?"

   "You can ask Professor Quirrell if you don't believe me," said Harry.
   "Ask him whether Harry Potter can cast a corporeal Patronus, and tell
   him that I told you to ask. He'd know the request was from me, no one
   else would know."

   Oh, and now Draco was to trust Professor Quirrell? Still, knowing
   Harry, it might be true; and Professor Quirrell wouldn't lie for
   trivial reasons.

   The glowing snake turned its head back and forth, as though seeking a
   prey that wasn't there, and then coiled itself into a circle, as though
   to rest.

   "I wonder," Harry said softly, "when it was, which year, which
   generation, that Slytherins stopped trying to learn the Patronus Charm.
   When it was that people started to think, that Slytherins themselves
   started to think, that being cunning and ambitious was the same as
   being cold and unhappy. And if Salazar knew that his students didn't
   even bother showing up to learn the Patronus Charm any more, I wonder,
   would he wish that he'd never been born? I wonder how it all went
   wrong, when Slytherin's House went wrong."

   The shining creature winked out, the turmoil rising in Draco making it
   impossible to sustain the Charm. Draco spun on Harry, he had to control
   himself not to raise his wand. "What do you know about Slytherin House
   or Salazar Slytherin? You were never Sorted into my House, what gives
   you the right to -"

   And that was when Draco finally realized.

   "You did get Sorted into Slytherin!" Draco said. "You did, and
   afterwards you, you somehow, you snapped your fingers -" Draco had once
   asked Father if it would be cleverer to get Sorted into some other
   House so that everyone would trust him, and Father had smiled and said
   that he'd thought of that too at Draco's age, but there was no way to
   fool the Sorting Hat...

   ...not until Harry Potter came along.

   How had he ever bought for one minute that Harry was a Ravenclaw?

   "An interesting hypothesis," Harry said equably. "Do you know, you're
   the second person in Hogwarts to come up with a theory along those
   lines? At least you're the second that's actually said so to my face -"

   "Snape," Draco said with certainty. His Head of House was no fool.

   "Professor Quirrell, of course," said Harry. "Though come to think,
   Severus did ask me how I managed to stay out of his House, and whether
   I had something the Sorting Hat wanted. I suppose you could say you're
   number three. Oh, but Professor Quirrell's theory was a little
   different than yours, though. May I have your word not to repeat it?"

   Draco nodded without even really thinking about it. What was he
   supposed to do, say no?

   "Professor Quirrell thought that Dumbledore wasn't happy with the Hat's
   choice for the Boy-Who-Lived."

   And the instant Harry said it, Draco knew, he knew that it was true, it
   was just obvious. Who did Dumbledore even think he was fooling?

   ...well, besides every single other person in Hogwarts except Snape and
   Quirrell, Harry might even believe it himself...

   Draco stumbled back over to his desk in something of a daze, and sat
   down hard enough to hurt slightly. This sort of thing happened around
   once a month with Harry, and it hadn't happened yet in January, so it
   was time.

   His fellow Slytherin, who might or might not think himself a Ravenclaw,
   sat back down in the chair he'd used earlier, now sitting on it
   crosswise, and looking up intently at Draco.

   Draco didn't know what he should be doing now, whether he should be
   trying to persuade the lost Slytherin boy that, no, he wasn't actually
   a Ravenclaw... or trying to figure out whether Harry was in league with
   Dumbledore, though that suddenly seemed less likely... but then why had
   Harry set up the whole thing with him and Granger...

   He really should have remembered that Harry was too weird for any
   normal plots.

   "Harry," Draco said. "Did you deliberately antagonize me and General
   Sunshine just so we'd work together against you?"

   Harry nodded without hesitation, as though it was the most normal thing
   in the world, and nothing to be ashamed of.

   "The whole thing with the gloves and making us climb up the walls of
   Hogwarts, the only point was to make me and Granger more friendly
   toward each other. And even before then. You've been plotting it for a
   really long time. Since the beginning."

   Again the nod.

   "WHYYYYY?"

   Harry's eyebrows lifted for a moment, the only reaction he showed to
   Draco shrieking so loudly in the closed classroom that it hurt his own
   ears. WHY, WHY, WHY did Harry Potter DO this sort of thing...

   Then Harry said, "So that Slytherins will be able to cast the Patronus
   Charm again."

   "That... doesn't... make... SENSE!" Draco was aware that he was losing
   control of his voice, but he didn't seem able to stop himself. "What
   does that have to do with Granger?"

   "Patterns," Harry said. His face was very serious now, and very grave.
   "Like a quarter of children born to Squib couples being wizards. A
   simple, unmistakable pattern you would recognize instantly, if you knew
   what you were looking at; even though, if you didn't know, you wouldn't
   even realize it was a clue. The poison in Slytherin House is something
   that's been seen before in the Muggle world. This is an advance
   prediction, Draco, I could have written it down for you before our
   first day of school, just from hearing you talk in King's Cross
   Station. Let me describe some really pathetic sorts of people that hang
   around at your father's political rallies, pureblood families that
   would never be invited to dinner at Malfoy Manor. Bearing in mind that
   I've never met them, I'm just predicting it from recognizing the
   pattern of what's happening to Slytherin House -"

   And Harry Potter proceeded to describe the Parkinsons and Montagues and
   Boles with a calmly cutting accuracy that Draco wouldn't have dared
   think to himself in case there was a Legilimens around, it was beyond
   insult, they would kill Harry if they ever heard...

   "To sum up," Harry finished, "they don't have any power themselves.
   They don't have any wealth themselves. If they didn't have Muggleborns
   to hate, if all the Muggleborns vanished the way they say they want,
   they'd wake up one morning and find they had nothing. But so long as
   they can say purebloods are superior, they can feel superior
   themselves, they can feel like part of the master class. Even though
   your father would never dream of inviting them to dinner, even though
   there's not one Galleon in their vaults, even if they did worse on
   their OWLs than the worst Muggleborn in Hogwarts. Even if they can't
   cast the Patronus Charm any more. Everything is the Muggleborns' fault
   to them, they have someone besides themselves to blame for their own
   failures, and that makes them even weaker. That's what Slytherin House
   is becoming, pathetic, and the root of the problem is hating
   Muggleborns."

   "Salazar Slytherin himself said that mudbloods needed to be cast out!
   That they were weakening our blood -" Draco's voice had risen to a
   shout.

   "Salazar was wrong as a question of simple fact! You know that, Draco!
   And that hatred is poisoning your whole House, you couldn't cast the
   Patronus Charm using a thought like that!"

   "Then why could Salazar Slytherin cast the Patronus Charm?"

   Harry was wiping sweat from his forehead. "Because things have changed
   between then and now! Listen, Draco, three hundred years ago you could
   find great scientists, as great as Salazar in their own way, who would
   have told you that some other Muggles were inferior because of their
   skin color -"

   "Skin color?" said Draco.

   "I know, skin color instead of anything important like blood purity,
   isn't it ridiculous? But then something in the world changed, and now
   you can't find any great scientists who still think skin color should
   matter, only loser people like the ones I described to you. Salazar
   Slytherin made the mistake when everyone else was making it, because he
   grew up believing it, not because he was desperate for someone to hate.
   There were a few people who did better than everyone else around them,
   and they were exceptionally good. But the ones who just accepted what
   everyone else thought weren't exceptionally evil. The sad fact is that
   most people just don't notice a moral issue at all unless someone else
   is pointing it out to them; and once they're as old as Salazar was when
   he met Godric, they've lost the ability to change their minds. Only
   then Hogwarts was built, and Hogwarts started sending acceptance
   letters to Muggleborns like Godric insisted, and more and more people
   began to notice that Muggleborns weren't any different. Now it's a big
   political issue instead of something that everyone just believes
   without thinking about it. And the correct answer is that Muggleborns
   aren't any weaker than purebloods. So now the people who end up siding
   with what Salazar once believed, are either people who grew up in very
   closed pureblood environments like you, or people who are so pathetic
   themselves that they're desperate for someone to feel superior to,
   people who love to hate."

   "That doesn't... that doesn't sound right..." Draco's voice said. His
   ears listened, and wondered that he couldn't come up with anything
   better to say.

   "It doesn't? Draco, you know now there's nothing wrong with Hermione
   Granger. You had trouble dropping her off a roof, I hear. Even though
   you knew she'd taken a Feather-Falling Potion, even though you knew she
   was safe. What sort of person do you think wants to kill her, not for
   any wrong she did to them, just because she's a Muggleborn? Even though
   she's, she's just a young girl who would help them with their homework
   in a second, if they ever asked her," Harry's voice broke, "what sort
   of person wants her to die?"

   Father -

   Draco felt split in two, he seemed to be having a problem with dual
   vision, Granger is a mudblood, she should die and a girl hanging from
   his hand on the rooftop, like seeing double, seeing double -

   "And anyone who doesn't want Hermione Granger to die, won't want to
   hang around the sort of people who do! That's all people think
   Slytherin is now, not clever planning, not trying to achieve greatness,
   just hating Muggleborns! I paid Morag a Sickle to ask Padma why she
   hadn't gone to Slytherin, we both know she got the option. And Morag
   told me that Padma just gave her a look and said that she wasn't Pansy
   Parkinson. You see? The best students with the virtues of more than one
   House, the students with choices, they go under the Hat thinking
   anywhere but Slytherin, and someone like Padma ends up in Ravenclaw.
   And... I think the Sorting Hat tries to maintain a balance in the
   Sorting, so it fills out the ranks of Slytherin with anyone who isn't
   repelled by all the hatred. So instead of Padma Patil, Slytherin gets
   Pansy Parkinson. She's not very cunning, and she's not very ambitious,
   but she's the sort of person who doesn't mind what Slytherin is turning
   into. And the more Padmas go to Ravenclaw and the more Pansies go to
   Slytherin, the more the process accelerates. It's destroying Slytherin
   House, Draco!"

   It had a ring of awful truth, Padma had belonged in Slytherin... and
   instead Slytherin got Pansy... Father rallied lesser families like the
   Parkinsons because they were convenient sources of support, but Father
   hadn't realized the consequences of associating Slytherin's name with
   them...

   "I can't -" Draco said, but he wasn't even sure what he couldn't do -
   "What do you want from me?"

   "I'm not sure how to heal Slytherin House," Harry said slowly. "But I
   know it's something you and I will end up having to do. It took
   centuries for science to dawn over the Muggle world, it only happened
   slowly, but the stronger science got, the further that sort of hatred
   retreated." Harry's voice was quiet, now. "I don't know exactly why it
   worked that way, but that's how it happened historically. As though
   there's something in science like the shine of the Patronus Charm,
   driving back all sorts of darkness and madness, not right away, but it
   seems to follow wherever science goes. The Enlightenment, that was what
   it was called in the Muggle world. It has something to do with seeking
   the truth, I think... with being able to change your mind from what you
   grew up believing... with thinking logically, realizing that there's no
   reason to hate someone because their skin is a different color, just
   like there's no reason to hate Hermione Granger... or maybe there's
   something to it that even I don't understand. But the Enlightenment is
   something that you and I belong to now, both of us. Fixing Slytherin
   House is just one of the things we have to do."

   "Let me think," Draco said, his voice coming out in something of a
   croak, "please," and he rested his head in his hands, and thought.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Draco thought for a while, with his palms over his eyes to shut out the
   world, no sound but his and Harry's breathing. All the persuasive
   reasonableness of what Harry said, the evident grains of truth that it
   contained; and against that, the obvious, the perfectly and entirely
   obvious hypothesis about what was really going on...

   After a time, Draco finally raised his head.

   "It sounds right," Draco said quietly.

   A huge smile broke out on Harry's face.

   "So," Draco continued, "is this where you bring me to Dumbledore, to
   make it official?"

   He kept his voice very casual as he said it.

   "Oh, yeah," Harry said. "That was the thing I was going to ask you
   about, actually -"

   Draco's blood froze in his veins, froze solid and shattered -

   "Professor Quirrell said something to me that got me thinking, and,
   well, no matter how you answer this question, I'm already stupid for
   having not asked you a lot earlier. Everyone in Gryffindor thinks
   Dumbledore is a saint, the Hufflepuffs think he's crazy, the Ravenclaws
   are all proud of themselves for having worked out that he's only
   pretending to be crazy, but I never asked anyone in Slytherin. I'm
   supposed to know better than to make that sort of mistake. But if even
   you think Dumbledore's okay to conspire with on fixing Slytherin House,
   I guess I didn't miss anything important."

   ...

   ...

   ...

   "You know," Draco said, his voice remarkably calm, all things
   considered, "every time I wonder if you do things like this just to
   annoy me, I tell myself that it has to be accidental, no one could
   possibly do this sort of thing on purpose even if they tried until
   blood trickled out of their ears. That's the only reason I'm not going
   to strangle you now."

   "Huh?"

   And then strangle himself, because Harry had grown up with Muggles, and
   then Dumbledore had smoothly diverted him from Slytherin to Ravenclaw,
   so it was perfectly plausible that Harry might not know anything, and
   Draco had never thought to tell him.

   Or else Harry had guessed that Draco wouldn't join up with Dumbledore
   so readily, and this itself was just the next step of Dumbledore's
   plan...

   But if Harry really didn't know about Dumbledore, then warning him had
   to take precedence over everything.

   "All right," Draco said, after he'd had a chance to organize his
   thoughts. "I don't know where to start, so I'll just start somewhere."
   Draco drew a deep breath. This was going to take a while. "Dumbledore
   murdered his little sister, and got away with it because his brother
   wouldn't testify against him -"
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry listened with increasing worry and dismay. Harry had been
   prepared, he'd thought, to take the blood purist side of the story with
   a grain of salt. The trouble was that even after you added an enormous
   amount of salt, it still didn't sound good.

   Dumbledore's father had been convicted of using Unforgivable Curses on
   children, and died in Azkaban. That was no sin of Dumbledore's, but it
   would be a matter of public record. Harry could check that part, and
   see whether all of this had been made up out of thin air by the blood
   purists.

   Dumbledore's mother had died mysteriously, shortly before his younger
   sister died in what the Aurors had ruled to be murder. Supposedly that
   sister had been brutalized by Muggles and never spoken again after
   that; which, Draco pointed out, sounded remarkably like a botched
   Obliviation.

   After Harry's first few interruptions, Draco had seemed to pick up on
   the general principle, and was now presenting the observations first
   and the inferences afterward.

   "- so you don't have to take my word for it," said Draco, "you can see
   it, right? Anyone in Slytherin can. Dumbledore waited to fight his duel
   with Grindelwald until the exact moment when it would look best for
   Dumbledore, after Grindelwald had ruined most of Europe and built up a
   reputation as the most terrible Dark Wizard in history, and just when
   Grindelwald had lost the gold and blood sacrifices he was getting from
   his Muggle pawns and was about to start heading downhill. If Dumbledore
   was really the noble wizard he pretended to be, he'd have fought
   Grindelwald long before that. Dumbledore probably wanted Europe ruined,
   it was probably part of their plan together, he only attacked
   Grindelwald after his puppet failed him. And that big flashy duel
   wasn't real, there's no way two wizards would be so exactly matched
   that they'd fight for twenty whole hours until one of them fell over
   from exhaustion, that was just Dumbledore making it look more
   spectacular." Here Draco's voice became more indignant. "And that got
   Dumbledore made Chief Warlock of the Wizengamot! The Line of Merlin
   Unbroken, corrupted after fifteen hundred years! And then he became
   Supreme Mugwump on top of that, and he already had Hogwarts to use as
   an invincible fortress - Headmaster and Chief Warlock and Supreme
   Mugwump, no normal person would try to do all that at once, how can
   anyone not see that Dumbledore's trying to take over the world?"

   "Pause," Harry said, and closed his eyes to think.

   It wasn't any worse than what you would have heard about the West in
   Stalin's Russia, and none of that would have been true. Though the
   blood purists wouldn't be able to get away with making stuff up
   entirely... or would they? The Daily Prophet had shown a pronounced
   tendency to make stuff up... but then again, when they stuck out their
   neck too far on the Weasley betrothal, they had been called on it and
   they had been embarrassed...

   Harry opened his eyes, and saw that Draco was watching him with a
   steady, waiting gaze.

   "So when you asked me if it was time to join up with Dumbledore, that
   was just a test."

   Draco nodded.

   "And before that, when you said it sounded right -"

   "It sounds right," said Draco. "But I don't know if I can trust you.
   Are you going to complain about my testing you, Mr. Potter? Are you
   going to say that I fooled you? That I led you on?"

   Harry knew he should smile like a good sport, but he couldn't really,
   it was too much of a disappointment.

   "You're right, it's fair, I can't complain," Harry said instead. "So
   what about He-Who-Must-Not-Be-Named? Not as bad as he was made out to
   be?"

   Draco looked bitter, at that. "So you think it's all just making
   Father's side look good and Dumbledore's side look bad, and that I
   believe it all myself just because Father told me."

   "It's a possibility I'm considering," Harry said evenly.

   Draco's voice was low and intense. "They knew. My father knew, his
   friends knew. They knew the Dark Lord was evil. But he was the only
   chance anyone had against Dumbledore! The only wizard anywhere who was
   powerful enough to fight him! Some of the other Death Eaters were truly
   evil too, like Bellatrix Black - Father isn't like that - but Father
   and his friends had to do it, Harry, they had to, Dumbledore was taking
   over everything, the Dark Lord was the only hope anyone had left!"

   Draco was staring hard at Harry. Harry met the gaze, trying to think.
   Nobody ever thought of themselves as the villain of their own story -
   maybe Lord Voldemort did, maybe Bellatrix did, but Draco certainly
   didn't. That the Death Eaters were bad guys was not in question. The
   question was whether they were the bad guys; whether there was one
   villain in the story, or two...

   "You're not convinced," Draco said. He looked worried, and a little
   angry. Which didn't surprise Harry. He was pretty sure Draco himself
   believed all this.

   "Should I be convinced?" Harry said. He didn't look away. "Just because
   you believe it? Are you a strong enough rationalist now that your
   belief is strong evidence to me, because you'd be very unlikely to
   believe it if it weren't true? When I met you, you weren't that strong.
   Everything you told me, did you rethink it after you awakened as a
   scientist, or is it just something you grew up believing? Can you look
   me in the eyes and swear to me upon the honor of House Malfoy that if
   there's one untruth buried in what you said, one thing that got added
   on just to make Dumbledore look a little worse, you would have
   noticed?"

   Draco started to open his mouth, and Harry said, "Don't. Don't stain
   the honor of House Malfoy. You're not that strong yet, and you should
   know it. Listen, Draco, I've started to notice some worrying things
   myself. But there's nothing definite, nothing certain, it's all just
   deductions and hypotheses and untrustworthy witnesses... And there's
   nothing certain in your story, either. Dumbledore might've had some
   other good reason not to fight Grindelwald years earlier - though it
   would have to be a pretty good excuse, especially considering what was
   happening on the Muggle side of things... but still. Is there one
   clearly evil thing that Dumbledore's done for certain, so I don't have
   to wonder?"

   Draco's breathing was harsh. "All right," Draco said in an uneven
   voice, "I'll tell you what Dumbledore did." From Draco's robes came a
   wand, and Draco said "Quietus", then "Quietus" again, but he got the
   pronunciation wrong a second time, and finally Harry took out his own
   wand and did it.

   "There," said Draco hoarsely, "once upon a time there, there was a
   girl, and her name was Narcissa, and she was the prettiest, the
   smartest, the most cunning girl that was ever Sorted into Slytherin,
   and my father loved her, and they married, and she wasn't a Death
   Eater, she wasn't a fighter, all she ever did was love Father -" Draco
   stopped there, because he was crying.

   Harry felt sick to his stomach. Draco had never talked about his
   mother, not once, he should have noticed that earlier. "She... got in
   the way of a curse?"

   Draco's voice came out in a scream. "Dumbledore burned her to death in
   her own bedroom!"
     __________________________________________________________________

   In a classroom filled with soft silver light, one boy is staring at
   another boy, who is sobbing, wiping frantically at his eyes with the
   sleeves of his robes.

   It was hard for Harry to stay balanced, to keep withholding judgment,
   it was too emotional, there was something that either wanted to start
   tears from his own eyes in sympathy with Draco, or know that it wasn't
   true...

   Dumbledore burned her to death in her own bedroom!

   That...

   ...didn't sound like Dumbledore's style...

   ...but you could only think that thought so many times, before you
   started to wonder about the trustworthiness of that whole 'style'
   concept.

   "It, it must have hurt horribly," Draco said, his voice shaking,
   "Father never talks about it at all, you don't ever talk about it in
   front of him, but Mr. Macnair told me, there were scorch marks all over
   the bedroom, from how Mother must have struggled while Dumbledore
   burned her alive. That is the debt Dumbledore owes to House Malfoy and
   we will have his life for it!"

   "Draco," Harry said, he let all of the hoarseness into his own voice,
   it would be wrong to sound calm, "I'm sorry, I'm so sorry for asking,
   but I have to know, how do you know it was Dumble-"

   "Dumbledore said he did it, he told Father it was a warning! And Father
   couldn't testify under Veritaserum because he was an Occlumens, he
   couldn't even get Dumbledore put on trial, Father's own allies didn't
   believe him after Dumbledore just denied everything in public, but we
   know, the Death Eaters know, Father wouldn't have any reason to lie
   about that, Father would want us to take revenge on the right person,
   can't you see that Harry?" Draco's voice was wild.

   Unless Lucius did it himself, of course, and found it more convenient
   to blame Dumbledore.

   Although... it also didn't seem like Lucius's style. And if he had
   murdered Narcissa, it would have been smarter to pin the blame on an
   easier victim instead of losing political capital and credibility by
   going after Dumbledore...

   In time, Draco stopped crying, and looked at Harry. "Well?" said Draco,
   sounding like he wanted to spit the words. "Is that evil enough for
   you, Mr. Potter?"

   Harry looked down at where his arms rested on the back of his chair. He
   couldn't meet Draco's eyes any more, the pain in them was too raw. "I
   wasn't expecting to hear that," Harry said softly. "I don't know what
   to think any more."

   "You don't know?" Draco's voice rose to a shriek, and he stood up
   abruptly from his desk -

   "I remembered the Dark Lord killing my parents," Harry said. "When I
   went in front of the Dementor the first time, that was what I
   remembered, the worst memory. Even though it was so long ago. I heard
   them dying. My mother begged the Dark Lord not to kill me, not Harry,
   please no, take me, kill me instead! That's what she said. And the Dark
   Lord mocked her, and laughed. Then, I remember, the flash of green
   light -"

   Harry looked up at Draco.

   "So we could fight," Harry said, "we could just keep on with the same
   fight. You could tell me that it was right for my mother to die,
   because she was the wife of James, who killed a Death Eater. But bad
   for your mother to die, because she was innocent. And I could tell you
   that it was right for your mother to die, that Dumbledore must have had
   some reason that made it okay to burn her alive in her own bedroom; but
   bad for my mother to die. But you know, Draco, either way, wouldn't it
   be obvious that we were just being biased? Because the rule that says
   that it's wrong to kill innocent people, that rule can't switch on for
   my mother and off for yours, and it can't switch on for your mother and
   off for mine. If you tell me that Lily was an enemy of the Death Eaters
   and it's right to kill your enemies, then the same rule says that
   Dumbledore was right to kill Narcissa, since she was his enemy."
   Harry's voice went hoarse. "So if the two of us are going to agree on
   anything, it's going to be that neither of their deaths were right and
   that no one's mother should die any more."
     __________________________________________________________________

   The fury boiling inside Draco was so great that he could barely stop
   himself from storming out of the room; all that halted him was the
   recognition of a critical moment; and a small remnant of friendship, a
   tiny flash of sympathy, for he had forgotten, he'd forgotten, that
   Harry's mother and father were dead by the Dark Lord's hand.

   The silence stretched.

   "You can talk," Harry said, "Draco, talk to me, I won't get angry - are
   you thinking, I don't know, that Narcissa dying was much worse than
   Lily dying? That it's wrong for me even to make the comparison?"

   "I guess I was stupid too," Draco said. "All this time, all this time I
   forgot that you must hate the Death Eaters for killing your parents,
   hate Death Eaters the way I hate Dumbledore." And Harry had never said
   anything, never reacted when Draco talked about Death Eaters, kept it
   hidden - Draco was a fool.

   "No," Harry said. "It's not - it's not like that, Draco, I, I don't
   even know how to explain to you, except to say that a thought like
   that, wouldn't," Harry's voice choked, "you wouldn't ever be able to
   use it, to cast the Patronus Charm..."

   Draco felt a sudden wrench in his heart, unwanted but he felt it. "Are
   you pretending you're just going to forget about your own parents? Are
   you saying I should just forget about Mother?"

   "So you and I have to be enemies then?" Now Harry's voice was growing
   equally wild. "What have we ever done to each other that means we have
   to be enemies? I refuse to be trapped like that! Justice can't mean
   that both of us should attack each other, it doesn't make sense!" Harry
   stopped, took a deep breath, ran his fingers back through the
   deliberate mess of his hair - the fingers came away sweaty, Draco could
   see it. "Draco, listen, we can't expect to meet on everything right
   away, you and I. So I won't ask you to say that the Dark Lord was wrong
   to kill my mother, just say that it was... sad. We won't talk about
   whether or not it was necessary, whether it was justified. I'll just
   ask you to say that it was sad that it happened, that my mother's life
   was valuable too, you'll just say that for now. And I'll say it was sad
   that Narcissa died, because her life was also worth something. We can't
   expect to agree on everything right away, but if we start out by saying
   that every life is precious, that it's sad when anyone dies, then I
   know we'll meet someday. That's what I want you to say. Not who was
   right. Not who was wrong. Just that it was sad when your mother died,
   and sad when my mother died, and it would be sad if Hermione Granger
   died, every life is precious, can we agree on that and let the rest go
   by for now, is it enough if we just agree on that? Can we, Draco? That
   seems... more like a thought someone could use to cast the Patronus
   Charm."

   There were tears in Harry's eyes.

   And Draco was getting angry again. "Dumbledore killed Mother, it's not
   enough to just say it's sad! I don't understand what you think you have
   to do, but the Malfoys have to take revenge!" Not avenging the deaths
   of family went beyond weakness, beyond dishonor, you might as well not
   exist.

   "I'm not arguing with that," Harry said quietly. "But will you say that
   Lily Potter's death was sad? Just say that one thing?"

   "That's..." Draco was having difficulty finding words again. "I know, I
   know how you feel, but don't you see Harry, even if I just say that
   Lily Potter's death was sad, that's already going against the Death
   Eaters!"

   "Draco, you've got to be able to say the Death Eaters were wrong about
   some things! You have to, you can't progress as a scientist otherwise,
   there'll be a roadblock in your way, an authority you can't contradict.
   Not every change is an improvement, but every improvement is a change,
   you can't do anything better unless you can manage to do it
   differently, you've got to let yourself do better than other people!
   Even your father, Draco, even him. You've got to be able to point to
   something your father did and say it was mistaken, because he wasn't
   perfect, and if you can't say that, you can't do better."

   Father had warned him, every night before he went to sleep for a month
   before he went to Hogwarts, that there would be people with this goal.

   "You're trying to break me loose of Father."

   "Trying to break a part of you loose," said Harry. "Trying to let you
   fix some things your father got mistaken. Trying to let you do better.
   But not... trying to break your Patronus!" Harry's voice got softer. "I
   wouldn't want to break something bright like that. Who knows, fixing
   Slytherin House might need that, too..."

   It was getting to Draco, that was the thing, despite everything it was
   getting to him, you had to be really careful around Harry because his
   arguments sounded so convincing even when he was wrong. "And what
   you're not admitting is that Dumbledore told you that you could avenge
   your parents' deaths by taking Lord Malfoy's son from him -"

   "No. No. That part's just wrong." Harry took a deep breath. "I did not
   know who Dumbledore was, or who the Dark Lord was, or who the Death
   Eaters were, or how my parents died, until three days before I came to
   Hogwarts. The day you and I first met in the clothes shop, that was the
   day I learned. And Dumbledore doesn't even like Muggle science, or he
   says he doesn't, I got a chance to probe him on it once. The thought of
   taking revenge on the Death Eaters through you has never crossed my
   mind, not even once until now. I didn't know who the Malfoys were when
   I met you in the clothes shop, and then I liked you."

   There was a long silence.

   "I wish I could trust you," Draco said. His voice was shaking. "If I
   could just know you were telling the truth, everything would be so much
   simpler -"

   And then suddenly it came to Draco.

   The way to know whether Harry Potter really meant everything he said,
   about wanting to fix Slytherin House, about being sad that Mother had
   died.

   It would be illegal, and since he'd have to do it without Father's
   help, it would be dangerous, he couldn't even trust Harry Potter to
   help, but...

   "All right," Draco said. "I've thought of a definitive experiment."

   "What is it?"

   "I want to give you a drop of Veritaserum," Draco said. "Just one drop,
   so you can't lie, but not enough to make you answer anything. I don't
   know where I'll get it, but I'll make certain it's safe -"

   "Um," Harry said. There was a helpless look on his face. "Draco, um -"

   "Don't say it," Draco said. His voice was firm and calm. "If you say
   no, that's my experimental result right there."

   "Draco, I'm an Occlumens -"

   "OH THAT IS SUCH A LIE -"

   "I was trained by Mr. Bester. Professor Quirrell set it up. Look,
   Draco, I'll take one drop of Veritaserum if you can get it, I'm just
   warning you that I'm an Occlumens. Not a perfect Occlumens, but Mr.
   Bester said I was putting up a complete block, and I could probably
   beat Veritaserum."

   "You're in your first year at Hogwarts! That's just crazy!"

   "Know a Legilimens you can trust? I'll be happy to demonstrate - look,
   Draco, I'm sorry, but doesn't the fact that I told you count for
   something? I could have just let you do it, you know."

   "WHY? Why are you always like this, Harry? Why do you have to mess
   everything up even when it's IMPOSSIBLE? And stop smiling, this isn't
   funny!"

   "I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I know it's not funny, I -"

   It took a while for Draco to get himself under control.

   But Harry was right. Harry could have just let Draco administer the
   Veritaserum. If he really was an Occlumens... Draco didn't know who he
   could ask to try Legilimency, but he could at least ask Professor
   Quirrell if it was true... Could Draco trust Professor Quirrell? Maybe
   Professor Quirrell would just say anything Harry asked him to.

   Then Draco remembered the other thing Harry had told him to ask
   Professor Quirrell, and thought of a different test.

   "You know," said Draco. "You know what it costs me, if I agree that the
   poison in Slytherin's House is hating Muggleborns, and say that Lily
   Potter's death was sad. And that's part of your plan, don't tell me
   it's not."

   Harry said nothing, which was wise of him.

   "There's something I want from you in return," said Draco. "And before
   then, an experimental test I want to try -"
     __________________________________________________________________

   Draco pushed open the door to which the portraits had directed them,
   and this time it was the right door. Before them was a small empty
   place of stone set against the night sky. Not a roof like the one he'd
   dropped Harry from, but a tiny and proper courtyard, far above the
   ground. With proper railings, elaborate traceries of stone that flushed
   seamlessly into the stone floor... How so much artistry had been
   infused into the creation of Hogwarts was something that still awed
   Draco every time he thought about it. There must have been some way to
   do it all at once, no one could have detailed so much piece by piece,
   the castle changed and every new piece was like that. It was so far
   beyond the wizardry of these fading days that no one would have
   believed it if they hadn't seen the proof in Hogwarts itself.

   Cloudless and cold, the winter night sky; it got dark long before
   students' curfew, in the final days of January.

   The stars shining brightly, in the clear air.

   Harry had said that being under the stars would help him.

   Draco touched his chest with his wand, slid his fingers in a practiced
   motion, and said, "Thermos." A warmth spread through him, starting from
   his heart; the wind went on blowing on his face, but he was no longer
   cold.

   "Thermos," Harry's voice said behind him.

   They went together to the railing, to look down at the ground a long
   way below. Draco tried to figure if they were in one of the towers that
   could be seen from outside, and found that right now he couldn't quite
   seem to picture how Hogwarts looked from outside. But the ground below
   was always the same; he could see the Forbidden Forest as a vague
   outline, and moonlight glittering from the Hogwarts Lake.

   "You know," Harry's voice said quietly from beside him where his arms
   leaned on the railing next to Draco's, "one of the things that Muggles
   get really wrong, is that they don't turn all their lights out at
   night. Not even for one hour every month, not even for fifteen minutes
   once a year. The photons scatter in the atmosphere and wash out all but
   the brightest stars, and the night sky doesn't look the same at all,
   not unless you go far away from any cities. Once you've looked up at
   the sky over Hogwarts, it's hard to imagine living in a Muggle city,
   where you wouldn't be able to see the stars. You certainly wouldn't
   want to spend your whole life in Muggle cities, once you'd seen the
   night sky over Hogwarts."

   Draco glanced at Harry, and found that Harry was craning his neck to
   stare up at where the Milky Way arched across the darkness.

   "Of course," Harry went on, his voice still quiet, "you can't ever see
   the stars properly from Earth, either, the air always gets in the way.
   You have to look from somewhere else, if you want to see the real
   thing, the stars burning hard and bright, like their true selves. Have
   you ever wished that you could just whisk yourself up into the night
   sky, Draco, and go look at what there is to see around other Suns than
   ours? If there were no limit to the power of your magic, is that one of
   the things you would do, if you could do anything?"

   There was a silence, and then Draco realized that he was expected to
   answer. "I didn't think of it before," Draco said. Without any
   conscious decision, his voice came out as soft and hushed as Harry's.
   "Do you really think anyone would ever be able to do that?"

   "I don't think it'll be that easy," said Harry. "But I know I don't
   mean to spend my whole life on Earth."

   It would have been something to laugh at, if Draco hadn't known that
   some Muggles had already left, without even using magic.

   "To pass your test," Harry said, "I'm going to have to say what it
   means to me, that thought, the whole thing, not the shorter version I
   tried to explain to you before. But you should be able to see it's the
   same idea, only more general. So my version of the thought, Draco, is
   that when we go out into the stars, we might find other people there.
   And if so, they certainly won't look like we do. There might be things
   out there that are grown from crystal, or big pulsating blobs... or
   they might be made of magic, now that I think about it. So with all
   that strangeness, how do you recognize a person? Not by the shape, not
   by how many arms or legs it has. Not by the sort of substance it's made
   out of, whether that's flesh or crystal or stuff I can't imagine. You
   would have to recognize them as people from their minds. And even their
   minds wouldn't work just like ours do. But anything that lives and
   thinks and knows itself and doesn't want to die, it's sad, Draco, it's
   sad if that person has to die, because it doesn't want to. Compared to
   what might be out there, every human being who ever lived, we're all
   like brothers and sisters, you could hardly even tell us apart. The
   ones out there who met us, they wouldn't see British or French, they
   wouldn't be able to tell the difference, they'd just see a human being.
   Humans who can love, and hate, and laugh, and cry; and to them, the
   ones out there, that would make us all as alike as peas in the same
   pod. They would be different, though. Really different. But that
   wouldn't stop us, and it wouldn't stop them, if we both wanted to be
   friends together."

   Harry raised his wand then, and Draco turned, and looked away, as he
   had promised; looked toward the stone floor and stone wall in which the
   door was set. For Draco had promised not to look, and not to tell
   anyone of what Harry had said, or anything at all of what happened here
   this night, though he didn't know why it was to be so secret.

   "I have a dream," said Harry's voice, "that one day sentient beings
   will be judged by the patterns of their minds, and not their color or
   their shape or the stuff they're made of, or who their parents were.
   Because if we can get along with crystal things someday, how silly
   would it be not to get along with Muggleborns, who are shaped like us,
   and think like us, as alike to us as peas in a pod? The crystal things
   wouldn't even be able to tell the difference. How impossible is it to
   imagine that the hatred poisoning Slytherin House would be worth taking
   with us to the stars? Every life is precious, everything that thinks
   and knows itself and doesn't want to die. Lily Potter's life was
   precious, and Narcissa Malfoy's life was precious, even though it's too
   late for them now, it was sad when they died. But there are other lives
   that are still alive to be fought for. Your life, and my life, and
   Hermione Granger's life, all the lives of Earth, and all the lives
   beyond, to be defended and protected, EXPECTO PATRONUM!"

   And there was light.

   Everything turned to silver in that light, the stone floor, the stone
   wall, the door, the railings, so dazzling just in the reflection that
   you could hardly even see them, even the air seemed to shine, and the
   light grew brighter, and brighter, and brighter -

   When the light ended it was like a shock, Draco's hand went
   automatically to his robe to bring out a handkerchief, and it was only
   then that he realized he was crying.

   "There is your experimental result," Harry's voice said quietly. "I
   really did mean it, that thought."

   Draco slowly turned toward Harry, who had lowered his wand now.

   "That, that's got to be a trick, right?" Draco said. He couldn't take
   many more of these shocks. "Your Patronus - can't really be that bright
   -" And yet it had been Patronus light, once you knew what you were
   looking at, you couldn't mistake it for anything else.

   "That was the true form of the Patronus Charm," Harry said. "Something
   that lets you put all your strength into the Patronus, without
   hindrance from within yourself. And before you ask, I did not learn it
   from Dumbledore. He does not know the secret, and could not cast the
   true form if he did. I solved the puzzle for myself. And I knew, once I
   understood, that this spell must not be spoken of. For your sake, I
   undertook your test; but you must not speak of it, Draco."

   Draco didn't know any more, he didn't know where the true strength lay,
   or the right of things. Double vision, double vision. Draco wanted to
   call Harry's ideals weakness, Hufflepuff foolishness, the sort of lie
   that rulers told to placate the populace and that Harry had been silly
   enough to believe for himself, foolishness taken seriously and raised
   up to insane heights, projected out onto the stars themselves -

   Something beautiful and hidden, mysterious and bright -

   "Will I," whispered Draco, "be able to cast a Patronus like that,
   someday?"

   "If you always keep seeking the truth," Harry said, "and if you don't
   refuse the warm thoughts when you find them, then I'm sure you will. I
   think a person could get anywhere if they just kept going long enough,
   even to the stars."

   Draco wiped his eyes with his handkerchief again.

   "We should go back inside," Draco said in an unsteady voice, "someone
   could've seen it, all that light -"

   Harry nodded, and moved to and through the door; and Draco looked up at
   the night sky one last time before he followed.

   Who was the Boy-Who-Lived, that he was already an Occlumens, and could
   cast the true form of the Patronus Charm, and do other strange things?
   What was Harry's Patronus, why must it stay unseen?

   Draco didn't ask any of those questions, because Harry might have
   answered, and Draco just couldn't take any more shocks today. He just
   couldn't. One more shock and his head was going to just fall right off
   his shoulders and go bounce, bounce, bounce down the corridors of
   Hogwarts.
     __________________________________________________________________

   They'd ducked into a small alcove, instead of going all the way back to
   the classroom, at Draco's request; he was feeling too nervous to put it
   off any longer.

   Draco put up a Quieting barrier, and then looked at Harry in silent
   question.

   "I've been thinking about it," Harry said. "I'll do it, but there are
   five conditions -"

   "Five?"

   "Yes, five. Look, Draco, a pledge like this is just begging to go
   terribly wrong somehow, you know it would go wrong if this were a play
   -"

   "Well, it's not!" Draco said. "Dumbledore killed Mother. He's evil.
   It's one of those things you talk about that doesn't have to be
   complicated."

   "Draco," Harry said, his voice careful, "all I know is that you say
   that Lucius says that Dumbledore says he killed Narcissa. To believe
   that unquestioningly, I have to trust you and Lucius and Dumbledore. So
   like I said, there are conditions. The first one is that at any point
   you can release me from the pledge, if it no longer seems like a good
   idea. It has to be a deliberate and intended decision on your part, of
   course, not a trick of wording or something."

   "Okay," said Draco. That sounded safe enough.

   "Condition two is that I'm pledging to take as an enemy whoever
   actually did kill Narcissa, as determined to the honest best of my
   ability as a rationalist. Whether that's Dumbledore, or someone else.
   And you have my word that I'll exercise my best ability as a
   rationalist to keep that judgment honest, as a question of simple fact.
   Agreed?"

   "I don't like it," said Draco. He didn't, the whole point was to make
   sure Harry never went with Dumbledore. Still, if Harry was honest, he'd
   catch on to Dumbledore soon enough; and if dishonest, he'd already
   broken his word... "But I'll agree."

   "Condition three is that Narcissa has to have been burned alive. If
   that part of the story turns out to be something exaggerated just to
   make it sound a little worse, then I get to decide for myself whether
   or not to still go through with the pledge. Good people sometimes have
   to kill. But they don't ever torture people to death. It's because
   Narcissa was burned alive that I know whoever did that was evil."

   Draco kept his temper, barely.

   "Condition four is that if Narcissa got her own hands dirty, and, say,
   Crucioed someone's child into insanity, and that person burned Narcissa
   for revenge, the deal might be off again. Because then it was still
   wrong for them to burn her, they still should've just killed her
   without pain; but it wasn't evil the same way as if she was just
   Lucius's love who never did anything herself, like you said. Condition
   five is that if whoever killed Narcissa was tricked somehow into doing
   it, then my enemy is whoever tricked them, not the person who was
   tricked."

   "All this really sounds like you're planning to weasel out of it -"

   "Draco, I won't take a good person as an enemy, not for you or anyone.
   I have to really believe they're in the wrong. But I've thought about
   it, and it seems to me that if Narcissa didn't do any evil with her own
   hands, just fell in love with Lucius and chose to stay his wife, then
   whoever burned her alive in her own bedroom isn't likely to be a good
   guy. And I'll pledge to take as my enemy whoever made that happen,
   whether it's Dumbledore or anyone else, unless you deliberately release
   me from that pledge. Hopefully that won't go wrong the way it would if
   this were a play."

   "I'm not happy," said Draco. "But okay. You pledge to take my mother's
   murderer as your enemy, and I'll -"

   Harry waited, with a patient look on his face, while Draco tried to
   make his voice work again.

   "I'll help you fix the problem with Slytherin House hating
   Muggleborns," Draco finished in a whisper. "And I'll say it was sad
   that Lily Potter died."

   "So be it," said Harry.

   And it was done.

   The break, Draco knew, had just widened a little more. No, not a
   little, a lot. There was a sensation of drifting away, of being lost,
   further and further from shore, further and further from home...

   "Excuse me," Draco said. He turned away from Harry, and then tried to
   calm himself, he had to do this test, and he didn't want to fail it
   from being nervous or ashamed.

   Draco raised his wand into the starting position for the Patronus
   Charm.

   Remembered falling from his broomstick, the pain, the fear, imagined it
   coming from a tall figure in a cloak, looking like a dead thing left in
   water.

   And then Draco closed his eyes, the better to remember Father holding
   his small, cold hands in his own warm strength.

   Don't be frightened, my son, I'm here...

   The wand swung up in a broad brandish, to drive the fear away, and
   Draco was surprised at the strength of it; and he remembered in that
   moment that Father wasn't lost, would never be lost, would always be
   there and strong in his own person, no matter what happened to Draco,
   and his voice cried, "Expecto Patronum!"

   Draco opened his eyes.

   A shining snake looked back at him, no less bright than before.

   Behind him, he heard Harry exhale a breath, as though in relief.

   Draco gazed into the white light. It seemed he wasn't lost completely,
   after all.

   "That reminds me," said Harry after a while. "Can we test my hypothesis
   about how to use a Patronus to send messages?"

   "Is it going to surprise me?" said Draco. "I don't want any more
   surprises today."
     __________________________________________________________________

   Harry had claimed that the idea wasn't all that strange and he didn't
   see how it could possibly shock Draco in any way, which made Draco feel
   even more nervous, somehow; but Draco could see how important it was to
   have a way of sending messages in emergencies.

   The trick - or so Harry hypothesized - was wanting to spread the good
   news, wanting the recipient to know the truth of whatever happy thought
   you'd used to cast the Patronus Charm. Only instead of telling the
   recipient in words, the Patronus itself was the message. By wanting
   them to see that, the Patronus would go to them.

   "Tell Harry," said Draco to the luminous snake, even though Harry was
   standing only a few paces away on the other side of the room, "to, um,
   beware the green monkey," this being a sign from a play Draco had once
   seen.

   And then, just like at King's Cross station, Draco wanted Harry to know
   that Father had always cared for him; only this time he didn't try to
   say it in words, but wanted to say it with the happy thought itself.

   The bright snake slithered across the room, looking more like it was
   slithering through the air rather than the stone itself; it got to
   Harry after traveling that short distance -

   - and said to Harry, in a strange voice that Draco recognized as how he
   himself probably sounded to other people, "Beware the green monkey."

   "Hsssss ssss sshsshssss," said Harry.

   The snake slithered back across the floor to Draco.

   "Harry says the message is received and acknowledged," said the shining
   Blue Krait in Draco's voice.

   "Huh," Harry said. "Talking to Patronuses feels odd."

   ...

   ...

   ...

   ...

   "Why are you looking at me like that?" said the Heir of Slytherin.
     __________________________________________________________________

   Aftermath:

   Harry stared at Draco.

   "You mean just magical snakes, right?"

   "N-no," said Draco. He was looking rather pale, and was still
   stammering, but had at least stopped the incoherent noises he'd been
   making earlier. "You're a Parselmouth, you can speak Parseltongue, it's
   the language of all snakes everywhere. You can understand any snake
   when it talks, and they can understand when you talk to them... Harry,
   you can't possibly believe you were Sorted into Ravenclaw! You're the
   Heir of Slytherin!"

   ...

   ...

   ...

   ...

   ...

   "SNAKES ARE SENTIENT?"
